hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
so the Apple watch has been out for a
little while now and as I mentioned in
one of my earlier videos I think the
fitness tracking features are one of the
biggest strengths of the Apple watch now
Apple markets the Apple watch in a
variety of different ways they mark it
as a fashion thing they market it as a
status thing but if you notice a lot of
the marketing on this product is based
on Fitness so they have a dedicated
Fitness watch the sport version they
have multiple bands like sport bands of
different colors they had that ex model
who runs marathons her name was Christy
Turlington burns and they also have a
dedicated workout app to track various
fitness activities so things like biking
rowing walking running using an
elliptical stair stepper so all of these
things are obviously cardio oriented but
I wanted to see how this watch would do
for strength training because I'm not a
super fit person I would consider myself
like relatively active
but I wanted to know how good the Apple
watch is for strength training because
that's all I ever do if I make it to the
gym so I made a video here it is let's
take a look at how the watch tracks
Fitness when you open up the activity
app you can see some rings so just
ignore the blue one the only two we
really need to focus on are the red ring
and the green ring the red ring is what
Apple calls move it's basically like a
calorie counter and based on things like
gender weight and fitness level the
watch will assign you a target goal that
you try to reach each day my goal is 620
calories and the green ring is the
exercise ring which is a counter for how
many minutes you've exercised that day
so the watch gives you an unchangeable
goal of thirty minutes that's what you
aim for and because I did a workout this
morning I'm over the 30 minute mark and
for both of these things you can swipe
the screen to see an hourly breakdown of
when you did what so the goal of each
day is to fill up the red and the green
ring by being active now to track a
workout you have to start the workout
app within that app underneath the list
of super boring cardio workouts there's
an option called other and since there's
no strength training option that's what
I've currently use to track these
workouts if you hit that you get this
message it's probably worded but
basically what it means is that when you
use this option the watch will rely only
on its sensors to determine your calorie
burn so if you're jumping around and
being really active it'll record that
but if there isn't much motion or if
your heart rate isn't elevated then it's
going to treat your workout like a low
calorie walk does that make sense all
right
so I want to preface this part of the
video with two things first I had to
film this footage in some really dim
lighting because other people were using
the gym and I didn't want to be that
douchebag turning on all the lights just
to kind of film himself working out and
secondly please don't make fun of my
lack of fitness I made this video to be
informative and not to ask if you bros
lifts alright so on screen I have some
numbers the calories burnt that the
watch measured the time I spent doing it
and the heart rate that the watch
measured after the workout so for all of
these exercises I did three sets around
ten reps each and I just wrote down the
numbers I did a lot of back exercises I
don't even know why now keep in mind
that I took breaks in between each set I
tried to keep it around a minute but
sometimes when I was setting up the
camera and stuff stretched for like two
or three minutes but the workout app
continues to run and because your heart
rate is still elevated during these
breaks it still counts as calorie burn
and because the workout app timer is
still going it obviously counts towards
that green exercise ring
chest workout I couldn't use the bench
because some other dude was using it
that night when I filmed it but I'm
pretty sure the fitness tracking would
be very similar either way now my heart
rate measured really low on this one and
correspondingly my calorie burn was a
little low as well
and the same thing goes for the dumbbell
flyes I tried both of these exercises
for 4 sets and to be honest I had to use
lower and lower weights because I was
just getting super tired doing this
but for whatever reason I just wasn't
getting good numbers my heart rate was
always low and my calories were
correspondingly low so looking at the
resources online I really think these
should be higher numbers but I think the
watch wasn't detecting my heart rate
properly
now interestingly my heart rate was
super high during lunges I always
struggled with these things because I
have pretty scrawny legs but it's crazy
how high my heart rate was going now
I've used a Fitbit before with pretty
similar results and I think this is just
the way it is I think lunges are just
really good workouts but it's good that
the watch could pick it up like this
and again I couldn't do regular squats
because the bench was in use but this is
good enough for me again elevated heart
rate I guess that's why they say leg day
is so important I also tried to use a
leg press machine now even though the
watch isn't even moving the sensors have
to be picking up some elevated heart
rate because I'm still getting good
calorie burn here so while you watch me
struggle with this arm workout I thought
I should mention a couple things first
the heart rate sensor you got to keep it
tight on your skin so every time I
worked out I would tighten the watch
band up just by one notch to make sure
that I was getting good contact it's
still comfortable but it makes a
difference you want it to be tight and
another thing if you want your fitness
tracking to be as accurate as possible I
would recommend taking it off before you
shower it's not about water resistance I
mean I've showered with this thing every
single day and there's no problem but
I've noticed that every time I come out
of the shower I have like 40 or 50
calories burned and I've had like two
minutes of exercise I think when you're
showering and you're shampooing your
hair you're just moving your watch
around and it thinks you're doing a
workout when you're really not so unless
you want to cheat I would take it off
before you shower and one other thing
when I use the workout app for about an
hour I drain the battery about 10% I
mean I look at the screen a lot just
kind of see what I'm doing but that's
what you're going to get a 10% drain for
an hour I also did push up some crunches
but I rented a space on the SD card so I
couldn't get footage of it but I'll just
put up the numbers in case you're
interested
so at the end of the workout you pressed
end and you get a little summary of your
workout there's a thing here called
resting calories these calories are not
added to your red ring so if you're just
looking at your red ring to see how many
calories you've burned over your workout
it's going to be a little bit lower than
the actual calories that you spent and
there's probably some really great
strength training apps out there already
I just haven't looked into it you can
open up the activity app and see a
record of all your fitness metrics you
can see metrics for the day and there's
also a log of what you've done in the
past I think it'll be kind of
interesting for some people to see
months or even years of this data you
can also go into one of the previous
days and see metrics for the workout you
did that day
and lastly there's some achievement
rewards you can earn by doing fitness
stuff I wish there was a way to
challenge your friends and stuff with
fitness goals like some fitness
platforms have but I think Apple will
add that feature down the line a lot of
the ads for the Apple watch focus on
cardio based fitness of things like
running and biking but it turns out that
it's actually pretty decent for tracking
casual strength training as well I mean
it's not super accurate you're not going
to have amazing metrics for every rep
that you're doing but for the average
you know just average gym user this is
actually pretty good device it keeps
track of how much time you spend
exercising and it keeps track of your
calorie that you calories that you spent
over the course of the workout now there
are some pickups some things like
heartrate sensing and the fact that your
calorie count is always going to be a
little bit lower than what it should be
just because you're kind of burning
energy over the course of the day after
strength training that the watch doesn't
pick up but in general this is actually
a pretty good device but I'd like to see
a software update from Apple just to
give another option in the workout app
for specifically strength training
that'd be nice now does this strength
training feature kind of make it a
useful device I'd say no the Apple watch
still feels really optional to me it's
nice to have metrics when you're working
out and I think for a handful of Apple
watch owners this will encourage them to
work out more or just be more active but
in general for the average consumer
fitness is not that big of a deal but I
was really curious to see how the Apple
watch would fare for strength training
and I guess now we know so I hope that
answered some of your questions if you
had any and if you have other questions
or comments
type them below and I'll do my best to
reply and as always I hope you guys
liked it if you liked it give me some
thumbs and if you loved it
give me some subs it's been nice and
I'll see you guys next time
you